you and your camera have been literally
everywhere on earth
on top of mount everest and at the
bottom of the mariana trench
you've seen the nile river niagara falls
the sahara desert
the grand canyon and a million other
beautiful places
on every trip you brought back
breathtaking pictures
your album is already as thick as an
encyclopedia and it's time to discover a
whole new world of tourism
let's head on a voyage to mars
you're sitting in a shiny modern rocket
counting down for takeoff
it might seem like a big deal but with
modern technology
it's practically a ride on a bus in only
a couple of hours
you're on the surface it's time to head
to the first destination for any tourist
on mars
olympus moths it's the size of the
entire state of arizona
and is 16 miles high that's three times
the size of mount everest
and it's the highest mountain in our
entire solar system
it's actually even more than a mountain
it's a giant volcano
this entire mountain was formed when
streams of lava
rose to the surface flowed down the
volcano slopes
and slowly cooled the freshest soil
layers are about 2 million years old
so scientists don't rule out the
possibility that this volcano
will wake up one day hopefully you're
not close by when it erupts
and there are statues of greek deities
everywhere
there's apollo and they're athena and
artemis
and here's zeus and neptune in the myths
these deities lived on mount olympus in
greece these aren't natural of course
we built these monuments to attract more
tourists
there are even plenty of souvenir stalls
where you can buy a lightning t-shirt in
honor of zeus
you take your first picture on mars and
move on to the next exciting place
this is a complex of 12 giant volcanoes
some of them reach almost the height of
olympus it's like if you piled 60 empire
state buildings on top of each other
they're so tall because gravity is much
weaker on mars than on earth
there isn't as much force pushing down
on them so they can grow much bigger
than anything you could find on earth
you feel lighter than you've ever felt
before and you can lift objects three
times as heavy
as you could back home it's easy to see
why the volcanoes are so big
when you jump and fly nine feet into the
air
these volcanoes have been erupting for
almost two billion years that's almost
half the age of our home planet that's
another reason
they've gotten so tall click
the photo is ready and you get on the
rover to explore the next landmark
valles marineris this is the largest
canyon in the world
it's longer than the distance from new
york to miami
and it's four times bigger than the
grand canyon here on earth
we don't know exactly how it came to be
but the most popular theory
suggests that it was all because of the
lava which pushed the crust
upward as it moved underground over time
these valleys grew into the enormous
canyon of valles marineris
the next stop is sidonia the cool thing
about this place
is the giant rock with a human face in
we saw photos from the surface of mars
and could clearly recognize
a human head here people immediately
came up with a thousand
theories as to how it could have
appeared here the fun theorizing and
speculation came to an end though
when new photos were taken in 2011
these clear pictures showed that the
eyes nose
and mouth were just shadows that
couldn't be picked out in the original
low quality image in fact it's just a
hill
a lot less exciting up close
wear a warm jacket to view the next
landmark spot
this is the north pole make sure you
keep a tight hold of your camera too
it's pretty windy out here that ice that
you see
is carbon dioxide which looks like that
because of the extremely low
temperatures
it can get cold here at negative 226
degrees fahrenheit
this cold place and the north pole are
responsible for the strong winds
all over the planet and there are even
geysers at the south pole in spring when
it gets warmer
jets of carbon dioxide rush to the
surface taking dust and sand with them
quick get it on your camera various
studies say
that there is an underground lake as
wide as delaware bay
one mile beneath a thick layer of ice
moving on to gale crater this is where
the curiosity rover landed in 2012
oh and here is its replica this little
guy has been studying
the surface of mars for years and has
found signs of evaporated water
this means that mars could have fostered
life in the past
the rover also found a lot of evidence
of organic molecules
as well as methane gas it could come
from microbes and other living things
but we don't know enough yet to say for
sure the existence of life on mars
hasn't been confirmed but it's exciting
to think that there could have been real
martians alive at some
point you take a selfie like you're
holding curiosity on your arm
great the mars cab is already here for
you and you're heading toward meduse
fosse many people believe that this
could be an alien crash site
because of the strange appearance of
these rocks of course
that's not true scientists suggest that
volcanoes have been erupting here for
years
lava has cooled into rocks and strong
winds have given them
strange shapes this entire volcanic
deposit
covers an area the size of a fifth of
the united states
and here's a place that has made earth
scientists nervous
and even scared hail crater and these
lines on the slopes
studies have shown that this place was
moistening
meaning that water could flow there but
then
it was determined that it was dry sand
streams
scientists fear this place may be home
to alien microbes
so you probably shouldn't get too close
another mysterious place for tourists on
mars is
ghost dunes in the ancient times of this
planet
there were dunes dozens of feet high but
then
they were flooded by water or lava their
bases are preserved
but the tops have been erased the
covered areas of these dunes can still
harbor microbes
here they are protected from wind and
solar radiation
and may still be preserved contact with
them can be dangerous for humans
so you take a photo from afar
the next spot is on mars satellite
phobos
oh there's a pretty big crowd of people
gathered here
and then you see it phobos monolith
it's a massive rock as tall as a
30-story building
we learned about this object from
pictures taken back on earth the
monolith casts a great shadow
and has spawned many theories for
example
some claim that it was built by an
ancient civilization
or was left here by aliens it might even
have been a beacon
all these people came here to test the
theory for themselves
but it just looks like a rock up close
one more photo and you have to hurry to
the bus that will take you to jupiter's
satellite
io it's only safe to be here in special
capsule cars that fly over the surface
and when you see volcanoes constantly
erupting you
understand why jupiter's gravity
compresses the insides of io they heat
up
and rise to the surface erupting in
volcanoes on its surface
they eject so much material that io
completely changes its surface
every few millennia now we turn on the
hyperdrives
and head out into deep space here in
complete darkness
is the voyager probe it was launched in
and is still in operation it's the first
human-made object to leave our solar
system's borders
and is the world's most distant
spacecraft voyager carries a golden disc
with a message for extraterrestrial
civilizations
this amazing disc contains pictures of
earth's landscapes
people animals and various sounds and
music
unfortunately it will take many
thousands of years to reach the nearest
star system
so we're not very likely to hear back
from any aliens any time soon
you take selfies and move on to the next
part of the tour
here a thousand light years from earth
is a black hole
the most mysterious and heaviest object
in the universe
it weighs as much as the sun but it's
much smaller
it's so heavy that it attracts
absolutely everything
even light so the black hole isn't
actually black
it has no color at all you can only
observe it from a very great distance
because it bends time the closer you are
to it
the slower time will go and if you want
to fly just a second
closer to it weeks or even months might
pass on earth in that time
in the old tradition you toss a coin
into the black hole
and continue your journey through the
distant cosmos
on the way home you have to stop by an
iconic spot on the moon
here in the sea of tranquility there's
an entire park
near the landing site of apollo 11. this
is where the first human set foot on the
surface of the moon
neil armstrong's first boot print is
still there on the surface
as proof it was made in 1969
but even now it looks exactly the same